A)  Attack - Attempt to engage thy foe with the weapons thou hast readied
    (Ready Weapon command); must be followed by the direction of thy foe.
B)  Board - Board a vessel or mount a horse.
C)  Cast - Cast a magical spell; must be followed by the number of the player
    who wishes to cast it (not needed in combat or in dungeon rooms), and then
    the first letter of the desired spell. Note: All spells must have reagents
    mixed in advance of casting.
D)  Descend - Climb down ladder to next level of dungeon or building.
E)  Enter - Go into such places as villages, townes, castles, dungeons, and
    shrines.
F)  Fire - Fire a ship's cannons (once thou hast Boarded); must be followed by a
    direction. Note: Broadsides only!
G)  Get Chest - Attempt to open (and disarm, if trapped) chest; must be followed
    by the number of the player who wishes to open the chest, except during
    combat and in dungeon rooms. Note: 'Tis wisest to use the player with the
    highest Dexterity when examining potentially dangerous chests as this
    lessens the chances of setting off any traps.
H)  Hole up and camp - Set up camp to rest and recover from thy wounds.
    Note: This command may only be used with limited frequency.
I)  Ignite a torch - Light a torch for illumination in dungeons. Requires a
    special item.
J)  Jimmy lock - Use a magical key to unlock a sealed door. Must be followed by
    the direction of the door that thou dost wish to unlock.
K)  Klimb - Climb up a ladder to the next level of a building or dungeon, or to
    reach the surface from the topmost level of a dungeon.
L)  Locate position - Requires a special item.
M)  Mix Reagents - Prepare material components of spells for later use.
    Note: Thou must have reagents mixed ahead of time in order to cast any
    spells. When asked "Reagent:", type the letter corresponding to the reagents
    desired, and then type [Return] when thou wish to mix them.
N)  New order - Exchanges the position of two players indicated within thy
    party, except for player #1, for thou must lead the party.
O)  Open door - Open a door in the direction indicated.
P)  Peer at gem - Requires a special item.
Q)  Quit & Save (Usable only whilst in the outdoors of Britannia) - Saves the
    current game status to disk; thou may continue after this command or power
    down thy computer.
R)  Ready a weapon - Equip a player with the weapon of thy choice (if owned) for
    use in combat.
S)  Search - Search thy exact current location for unusual items.
T)  Talk - Allows a player to converse with merchants or townsfolk in the
    direction indicated. (See Special Note)*
U)  Use - Use an item thou hast found during play by means of the "Search"
    command.
V)  Volume - Toggles Music On/Off.
W)  Wear armour - Outfits a player with the armour of thy choice (if owned) for
    defense in combat.
X)  Xit - That's (e)xit thy current form of transportation and continue on foot.
Y)  Yell - Yell "giddyup" or "whoa" to speed up or slow down thy horse.
Z)  Ztats - Displays the status and attributes of a selected player; If 0 is
    pressed instead of a player number, this command will display the lists of
    weapons, armour, items, reagents, and mixtures. The left and right arrow
    keys will scroll through these lists, while pressing any other key will
    return thee to game play.

*Special Note: Talking with the people found in the game is one of the most
important features of Ultima IV to master. It is virtually impossible to solve
thy quests without talking to virtually all people in each towne. Each person
with whom thou dost Talk is capable of a full conversation. They can be asked
about their "Name," "Job," and "Health." You may "Look" again at their visual
description. From this information thou shouldst be able to discern what else
they might know, hinted at directly by use of the precise words in the
conversation. E.g., if thou were to ask Dupre about his "Job" and he were to
respond "I am hunting Gremlins," thou might think to ask him about "Hunting" or
"Gremlins" - about either of which he might offer some insight.

    Each of these people might ask of thee a question as well; be sure to answer
the question honestly, for dishonesty will be remembered and not reflect well
upon thee for the rest of the game. Often thou shalt not know what to ask a
townsperson until thou hast been told by another. E.g., Iolo the Bard might tell
thee to ask Shamino the Ranger about swords. Even if thou hadst met Shamino
earlier thou wouldst not have known to ask him about swords, and thus thou
wouldst have to seek him out again if thou dost wish that knowledge.

    During thy conversations with people in Ultima IV, thou may feel the impulse
to show thy generosity to less fortunate fellows. Thou may do so by saying:
"Give".

    Some of the people that thou shalt meet may be willing to become thy
travelling companions. If thou dost wish for a character to become a player in
thy party, thou must ask them to "Join" thee. 'Tis most wise to strengthen thy
party as rapidly as possible, up to the seven companions thou shalt need to
complete the game. When thou art through with a conversation, then speak the
word "Bye" as an accepted means of politely ending thy conversation.

    Be sure to keep a journal of thy travels! Many of the clues to solving the
quests of Ultima IV art contained in the various and diverse conversations thou
might have with the various townsfolk. It would be next to impossible to solve
this game without some means of referring back to prior conversations held
during play.

    Be sure to thoroughly explore the cities and townes! Many of the quests
within Ultima IV are contained entirely within individual cities. 'Tis wisest to
spend a great deal of time seeking out the answers that lie hidden in each one
of the various townes of Britannia, before moving on to another.
